
Constructor:

 -It's a special method present under a class responsible for initializing the variables of that class.

 -The name of a constructor method is exactly the same name of the class in which it was present. and more over it's a 
  non-value returning method.

 -Each and every class requires this constructor if we want to create the instance of that class.
  
  Example:
  
    class Test
    { 
      int i(default value 0); string s(default value null); bool b((default value false));
    }
    Test obj = new Test();  //Valid


  -It's the responsibility of a programmer to define a constructor
   under his class and if he fails to do so, on befalf of the programmer
   an implicit constructor gets defined in that class by the complier.
   
     class Test
     {
        int i; string s; bool b;
        public Test()
        {
          i = 0;    //Initializing the variable
          s = null;
          b = false; 
        }
     }

 Important point about constructor:
 -Implicitly defined constructors are parameter less and these constructors are also known default
  constructor.
 -Implicitly defined constructor are public.
 -We can aslo define a constructor under the class and if we defined it 
  we can call it as explicit constructor and explicit constructor can be parameter less or 
  parameterized also. 

    Demo project(Implicit Constructor)
    class Program
    {
     int i; bool b;
     static void Main(string[] args)
     {
       Program p = new Program();
       Console.WriteLine("Value of i is"+p.i);
       Console.WriteLine("Value of i is"+p.b);
       Console.ReadLine(); 
     }
    }
  
  In this demo project there have no value assign for 
  field but its automatically set value by Compilier. Thats whay
  it's a implicit constructor.

 Syntax for constructor
     
     [<modifiers>] <Name> ([<parameter list>])
     {
       -Stmts
     } 


    Demo project(Exmplicit Constructor)
    class ExplicitConDemo
    {
     public ExplicitConDemo()
      {
        Console.WriteLine("Constructor is called");
      }
     static void Main(string[] args)
     {
       ExplicitConDemo obj = new ExplicitConDemo();
       Console.ReadLine(); 
     }
    }


 Defining: It's can be two types Implicit or Explicit


 Calling: It's only be Explicit by programmer.

 


